# 3-32

## strict mode

`'use strict';`

To activate strict mode is to write `'use strict';` at the beginning of the
script. It's gonna activate entire script.

`'use strict';` 위에 그 어떤 코드도 위치해선 안된다. 하지만 코멘트는 가능하다.

`'use strict';` helps you to write more secure code. It's easier to avoid
accidental errors.

1. strict mode forbids us to do certain things.

2. It will actually create visible errors for us in certain situations in which
   without strict mode Javascript will simply fail silently without letting use
   know what we did a mistake.

```javascript
let hasDriversLicense = false;
const passTest = true;

if (passTest) hasDriverLicense = true; // mistake variable name
// 콘솔에서 위 오류를 지적해준다.
if (hasDriversLicense) console.log('I can drive'); // false

const interface = 'audio'; // interface 같은 예약어는 사용이 불가능.
const private = 423;
const if = 42;
```

# 5-56

## prettier

prettier 검색 후 docs> options

new file > .prettierrc

```
{
    "singleQuote": true;,
    "arrowParens": "avoid";    // arrow 함수 pareses
}
```

## code snippets

code > preferences > user snippets > new global snippets file > give any name >
'console.log'와 같은 것을 적으면 됨..예시들도 잇음> prefix가 호출하는 이름

\$ 달러 사인을 body(불러올 코드)에 넣으면 autocomplete 가 먹히질 않는다.

## TODO highlight

하이라이트 해주는 것 BUG, FIXME

preferences json format을 가면 알아서 지정이 가능함..

# 5-57

# Installing Node.js and Setting Up a Dev Environment

node 버젼 찾기 `node -v`

## live server 다운받기

sudo npm install live-server -g

sudo = 안깔리면 붙히기, window의 경우는 필요 없.

## npm - node package manager - download tool

-g = global on your com

## 터미널 clear

command or control + k

## 터미널에 live-server 입력

터미널이 잘되는 지 확인

# Learning how to code

Always type the code, don't copy-paste.

After you learn a new feature or concept, use it immediately.

Don't be in a hurry to complete the course fast!

코딩 챌린지

[codewars.com](https://www.codewars.com/)

Clean and efficient code will come with time.

Just focus on what you need to achieve your goal.

Do not learn in isolation.

Share your learning progress with the web dev community.

#100DaysOfCode, #CodeNewbie #webdev, etc

# 5-58

# How to think like a developer

Stay calm and slow down, don't just jump at a problem without a plan.

1. Make sure you 100% understand a problem.

2. Divide and conquer.

3. Don't be afraid to do as much research as you have to.

4. For bigger problems, write pseudo-code before writing the actual code.

pseudo code is a code for humans to understand not computers. 사람이 이해할 수있
게 적어놓은 코드.. 자바스크립트 코드도 아니고 인간언어도 아닌..

# 5-59

# Using Google, StackOverflow and MDN

```javascript
const temperatures = [3, -2, -6, -1, 'error', 9, 13, 17, 15, 14, 9, 5];
```

## 1) understanding the problem

- What is temp amplitude?

`Answer: difference between highest and lowest temp.`

- How to compute max and min temperatures?

`google 'javascript get max value in array'`

Do not copy the code exactly from stackoverflow

- What's a sensor error? And what to do?

## 2) Breaking up into sub-problems

- How to ignore errors?

- Find max value in temp array

- Find min value in temp array

- Subtract min from max(amplitude) and return it

```javascript
const calcTempAmplitude = function (temps) {
  let max = temps[0];
  let min = temps[0];
  for (let i = 0; i < temps.length; i++) {
    const curTemp = curTemp;
    if (typeof curTemp != 'number') continue;

    if (curTemp > max) max = curTemp;
    if (curTemp < min) min = curTemp;
  }
  console.log(max, min);
};
calcTemAmplitude([3, 7, 4, 1, 8]);
// max = 8;
// min = 1;
const amplitude = calcTemAmplitude(temperatures);
console.log(amplitude);
```

# PROBLEM 2

Function should now receive 2 array of temps.

## 1) understanding the problem

- With 2 arrays, should we implement functionality twice?

`NO! just merge two arrays`

## 2) Breaking up into sub-problems

- Merge 2 arrays

explore MDN web

# 5-60

# Debugging

Software bug: defect or problem in a computer program. any unexpected or
unintended behavior of a computer is a software bug.

1. Becoming aware that there is a bug.

2. Isolating where exactly the bug is happening in code.

3. Correct the bug.

4. Preventing it from happening again.

# 5-61

# Debugging with the Console and Breakpoints

```javascript
const measureKelvin = function(){
    const measurement = {
        type: 'temp',
        unit: 'celsius',
        // C) FIX
        value: Number(prompt('Degrees celsius: ')); // 유저한테 값 물어보기!
    };

    console.log(measureKelvin); // 10이 string이라는 것을 알 수 있음
    // WHY?? prompt 는 항상 string으로 반환!
    // B) FIND
    console.table(mmeasureKelvin); // 콘솔에 테이블로 떠서 편안한 도구

    console.log(measurement.value);
    console.warn(measurement.value);  // 콘솔에 warning처럼 뜸
    console.error(measurement.value); // 콘솔에 error처럼 뜸

    const kelvin = measurement.value + 273;
    return kelvin;
};
// A) IDENTIFY BUG
console.log(measureKelvin());
```

# 크롬을 이용하여 디버깅하기

inspect > sources > 'script.js' 파일명 클릭>

## breakpoints

코드 옆 왼쪽 클릭. breakponits 를 설정해두면 execution이 바로 그 포인트에 멈춘다
. (헉.. 몰랏,,)

resume script execution 버튼 누르기 > breakpoint 까지 다 다르면 scope 탭을 눌러
서 값을 알 수 있다. 또한 hover 하면 whole Object를 보는 것이 가능하다. property
value에 hover해도 볼 수 있다.

# debugger

`debugger;` 코드를 실행 코드안에 넣어놓으면 브라우저가 자동적으로 디버그 툴을 열
어준다.

# 5-62

# N.89

Paradigm: An approach and mindset of structuring code, which will direct your
coding style and technique.

## First-class function

In a language with first-class functions, functions are simply treated as
variables. We can pass them into other functions, and return them from
functions.

EX) `overlay.addEventListener('click', closeModal);`

## Dynamic

Dynamically-typed lang. No data type definitions.

Types becomes known at runtime. Data type of variable is automatically changed.

Ex) `let x = 23; x = 'hello;'`

타입스크립트의 존재 이유 ^\_\_^;;

## Single-threaded

### Concurrency Model

How the Javascript engine handles multiple tasks happening at the same time.

### Why do we need that?

Javascript runs in one single thread.

### So what about a long-running task?

Sounds like it would block the single thread. However, we want non-blocking
bahavior.

### How do we achieve that?

By using an **event loop**, takes long running takes, executes them in the
background and puts them back in the main thread once they are finished.

## Non-blocking event loop

---

---

# 90

Call Stack: Where our code is executed. (Execution context)

Heap: Where objects are stored. (Object in memory)

Compilation: Entire code is converted into machine code at once and written to a
binary file that can be executed by a computer.

Interpretation: Interpreter runs through the source code and executes it line by
line.

Modern javascript use a mix between compilation and interpretation which is
called **just-in-time(JIT)** compilation. Entire code is converted into machine
code at once, then executed immediately. It's a lot faster than just executing
code.

`Parsing > Compilation > Execution`

In the background, this code is being optimized and recompiled during the
already running program execution. (Happens in special threads what we can't
access from code) During the parsing process, the code is parsed into a data
structure called the abstract syntax tree or AST.

Javascript is an interpreted language. NOPE

**WEB APIs are functionalities provided to the engine, accessible on window
object. They are not part of the javascript lang itself.**

Callback queue : Callback function from DOM event listener ('click'). 이 모든 것
은 event loop에 의해 일어난다. 즉, 이벤트 루프는 콜백 큐로부터 콜백 함수를 콜 스
택에 넣는다. 그 후 실행이 되는 것이다.

# 91
